2023 high-level strategy (#5233)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/strategy/overview.md

Our mission is to increase the number of successful products in the world.

> We do this by building the best developer tool for **engineers** to build better products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do this by helping **engineers** become better at product.
```

I think this better captures what we're doing - ie the description above could mean _any _ dev tool - CI/CD / a programming language / GitHub, which I don't think is in scope

I debated saying "product, marketing and sales", but I think that's maybe too broad?

* _Reject_: We enable our customers to ingest, store and analyze data on their infrastructure, we don't believe tons of integrations, dealing with multiple vendors and sending sensitive data to multiple cloud providers is the right approach. Providing all the apps and data platform in one place, removes the need to setup a warehouse in the first place.

## Direction for 2023

> 3-word summary: **Nail product engineering**

Reviewer 2: I would like to make the revolutionary proposal to not use the "nail" terminology anymore, at least not in this context. If we want to stick with a 3-word summary, I would tend to something like "Supercharge Product Engineers", because I think that is a nicer visualisation, imagining how a Product Engineer will _excel_ in their work because of PostHog.

Reviewer: genuine q - on either suggestion... will this differ in say 2024? i am wondering if it should be more specific to this _year's_ approach

Author: Good question - I think this 3-word summary represents a reasonably big shift compared to the focus previously (nail self-serve). In terms of future looking, if we execute well on this I could see either broadening the summary, switching the ICP for a few quarters (e.g. nail growth engineering), or choosing a more specific part of product engineering side that we don't think we have nailed yet. However we might also want to roll it over for another few quarters if we don't think we have it nailed yet.

I'm happy with "Supercharge product engineers" as is but happy to hear if you have a better suggestion which encapsulates what we are wanting to do

* **Customers**

>   * **Focus on product engineers at high-growth startups.** E.g. Large initial contracts ($20k-$70k/year) and smaller startups that will eventually become large

Reviewer 3: Just to clarify - is our definition now that 'product engineers at high-growth startups' includes both those at growth stage companies _and_ YC-type startups? Or are growth companies the primary target, and early stage startups secondary?

(I don't have a view on which is right, just that it would be good to clarify)

Author: Growth companies the primary target, and early stage startups secondary is the current framing. Building is much more focused on growth companies as primary target. I'd expect marketing to be more balanced.

  * **Non Goal:** Start doing outbound sales; build products that only impact marketing/sales/CS teams
* **Product**
  * **Goals:**
    * 10x the core UX for product engineers:
      * PostHog 3000 UX = a design and UX uplift including dark mode
        * Why? Re-classify PostHog from a PM tool to a developer tool to better resonate with our audience. Reduce the friction in using multiple tools
      * More powerful querying
        * Why? Enable answering the long tail of questions that engineers have about their data
      * Make it easy to evaluate the success of features
        * Why? Currently, it's manual and repetitive to do best practice evaluation of features. Or it's not possible e.g. we don't have session recordings on mobile
    * Launch the CDP as a full product
      * Why?
        * Putting PostHog at the center of the stack gets all the data into PostHog, enabling our customers to ask the questions they need about their data
        * Makes PostHog incredibly sticky even if they move to a data warehouse
        * Our customers are already asking for it
      * How?

>         * Make imports and exports bulletproof, 1st class webhook destinations, build or integrate with key sources and destinations

Reviewer 3: Split into bullets?

  * **Non Goals:**
    * Build lots of new low-quality / partial features
    * Build everything a single enterprise customer wants just to close a deal

## Target customers for 2023

> We build for the **product-engineers** (full-stack engineers skewed towards the frontend) building the **most loved products** at **high-growth startups**. But it should be usable by everyone in the product team (engineers, PMs, designers).

Reviewer 3: Sorry I know this was already on the ICP page in the handbook, but I don't think the definition of 'product engineer' as a 'full stack engineer skewed towards the frontend' is the most useful one. 

I appreciate that code they write is typically frontend-focused, but what actually characterizes them to me is [much more expansive](https://posthog.com/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer) (e.g. own features, talk to users, make design decisions).

Author: Great point, I've linked to that article

* _Reject_: We enable our customers to ingest, store and analyze data on their infrastructure, we don't believe tons of integrations, dealing with multiple vendors and sending sensitive data to multiple cloud providers is the right approach. Providing all the apps and data platform in one place, removes the need to setup a warehouse in the first place.

## Direction for 2023

3-word summary: **Nail product engineering**

* **Customers**
  * **Focus on product engineers at high-growth startups.** E.g. Large initial contracts ($20k-$70k/year) and smaller startups that will eventually become large
  * **Non Goal:** Start doing outbound sales; build products that only impact marketing/sales/CS teams
* **Product**
  * **Goals:**
    * 10x the core UX for product engineers:
      * PostHog 3000 UX = a design and UX uplift including dark mode
        * Why? Re-classify PostHog from a PM tool to a developer tool to better resonate with our audience. Reduce the friction in using multiple tools
      * More powerful querying

>         * Why? Enable answering the long tail of questions that engineers have about their data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * Why? Enable answering the long tail of questions that engineers have about their data, without them needing to set up a data warehouse to do this
```

      * Make it easy to evaluate the success of features
        * Why? Currently, it's manual and repetitive to do best practice evaluation of features. Or it's not possible e.g. we don't have session recordings on mobile
    * Launch the CDP as a full product
      * Why?
        * Putting PostHog at the center of the stack gets all the data into PostHog, enabling our customers to ask the questions they need about their data
        * Makes PostHog incredibly sticky even if they move to a data warehouse

>         * Our customers are already asking for it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * Our customers are already asking for it
        * Reduces the need for customers to setup an additional CDP tool _and_ takes us a step closer to our customers not needing a warehouse either
```

* _Reject_: We enable our customers to ingest, store and analyze data on their infrastructure, we don't believe tons of integrations, dealing with multiple vendors and sending sensitive data to multiple cloud providers is the right approach. Providing all the apps and data platform in one place, removes the need to setup a warehouse in the first place.

## Direction for 2023

> 3-word summary: **Nail product engineering**

Author: ```suggestion
3-word summary: **Supercharge Product Engineers**
```
